So, some of you have already set
up your Expo environment and
if you have that's great.
But I'm just gonna run this
through from scratch, so
we can do it together if you haven't yet.
Cool, so find a good place.
Yeah, so first thing, basically,
I always refer to the React Native docs or
Expo docs.
Like these React Native docs
particularly are the bread and butter.
I use them all the time.
And the best guides in my
opinion are these Quickstarts?
So I always use these because they update
these whenever they release new versions.
Cool, so
basically what we are doing is this.
So we'll need a computer,
a smartphone and node.
If you already have node installed,
that's great.
If you don't, you'll have to install it.
You can check if you already have node
installed by typing node that actually
into your terminal.
If it returns the node version number,
you're golden.
If not, you might have to go and
install it.
And if you need to install node,
you just go send node website and
download this here.
I always go for the LTS version,
LTS stands for long term support.
So generally the even numbers were
node our long term supports and
the odd ones are not.
Cool, alright, so next thing we
do is we install the expo-cli and
we install this globally so we could have
the expo-cli command available for
us everywhere.
Depending on your internet
connection this might take sometime.
Cool, we're done, right.
And now we're just gonna
initialize our project.
So let's do expo init and
then your project name, so
I'm gonna name mine, AwesomeProjectExpo.
Right and you'll get some options here.
And you can have a TypeScript, if you're
TypeScript fan, you can have TypeScript
already added and you can also have
react navigation or the pre configured.
We're going to address react
navigation ourselves later.
So we're just gonna go with
the most blank template.
So now, you can use yarn.
If you have yarn installed or just, I
think it's actually npm run start,
I'm gonna have to fix my documentation.
Cool so this opens to the package m,
now we're halfway there.
So now what you do,
is you're going to be using your phone.
You can take your phone, fact, I'm gonna
mirror mine so you can see what I'm up to.
So I'm gonna go to the App Store,
and if your App Store.
If you're on Google, go on Google Play and
then just search for Expo.
And we'll have an application that looks
like this, it's called the Expo Client.
And install it if you're done
already otherwise you can open it.
You might have to log in as well.
Cool, so now we have this installed and
now notice that this
debug screen that Expo launched for
us has this handy QR code.
So what we do now is,
if you're on an Android phone,
there will be a button on your
screen that says scan QR code.
But if you're on an iOS phone, like me,
What you do is you open the camera app.
And it will give you a little push like
push notification that tells you to open
the app in Expo.
Now you can see in the bottom it
says building JavaScript bundle,
this is actually here.
This is what it's doing, cool and that's
basically our hello world application,
lets have a look at the folders
structure that is created
So this is all this creative
which is actually not a lot.
If you're already
familiar with JavaScript,
you definitely know node modules.
So node modules is basically where all
the many modules that have installed for
Expo and for React Native,
then we have this assets directory.
So notice this was the screen that we
had earlier while Expo was building.
And this is basically where you
can add all the assets that
you want to include the applications,
any images, any funds, any icons.
And then these two are just expo specific,
little folders that you can
pretty much just ignore for now.
Then we have some babel and
app configs, which we can also ignore.
The main thing, the only thing that
we really care about here is this,
which is our App.js, which is where
we'll start writing all our code.